GraphQL(Docs): Documentation for Aggregate Queries (#7104)
dgraph-io/dgraph: wiki/content/graphql/queries/aggregate.md

+++
title = "Aggregate Queries"
weight = 3
[menu.main]
    parent = "graphql-queries"
    name = "Aggregate Queries"
+++

Dgraph automatically generates aggregate queries for GraphQL schemas.
Aggregate queries fetch aggregate data, and including the following:

* *Count queries* that let you count fields
satisfying certain criteria specified using a filter.
* *Advanced aggregate queries* that let you calculate the maximum, minimum, sum
and average of specified fields.

Aggregate queries are compatible with the `@auth` directive and follow the same
authorization rules as the `query` keyword. You can also use filters with
aggregate queries, as shown in some of the examples provided below.

### Count queries at root

For every `type` defined in a GraphQL schema, Dgraph generates an aggregate query
`aggregate<type name>`. This query includes a `count` field, as well as

> advanced aggregate query fields, discussed below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[advanced aggregate query fields](#advanced-aggregate-queries-at-root).
```

#### Examples

Example: Fetch the total number of `posts`.

```graphql
   query {
     aggregatePost {
       count
     }
   }
```

Example: Fetch the number of `posts` whose titles contain `GraphQL`.

```graphql
   query {
     aggregatePost(filter: {
       title: {
         anyofterms: "GraphQL"
         }
       }) {
       count
     }
   }
```

### Count queries for child nodes

Dgraph also defines `<field name>Aggregate` fields for every field which
is of type `List[Type/Interface]` inside `query<type name>` queries, allowing

> you to do a `count` on fields, or to use the advanced aggregate queries
> discussed below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you to do a `count` on fields, or to use the [advanced aggregate queries](#advanced-aggregate-queries-for-child-nodes).
```
